docs/createFlows.rst, before:

.. _CreatingFlows:

Creating Flows
=============

This section covers how to create your Azkaban flows using Azkaban Flow 2.0.
Flow 1.0 will be deprecated in the future.


*****
Flow 2.0 Basics
*****

########
Using Azkaban Flow 2.0 can be simple and straightforward. Just start with below several steps:

Step 1:
######## 
Create a simple file called ``flow20.project``. Add ``azkaban-flow-version`` to indicate this is a Flow 2.0 Azkaban project:
::
  azkaban-flow-version: 2.0
 
Step 2:
######## 
Create another file called ``basic.flow``. Add a section called ``nodes``, which will contain all the jobs you want to run. You need to specify ``name`` and ``type`` for all the jobs. Most jobs will require the ``config`` section as well. We will talk more about it later. Below is a simple example of a command job.
:: 
  nodes:
    - name: jobA
      type: command
      config:
        command: echo "This is an echoed text."


Step 3:
########
Select the two files you've already created and right click to compress them into a zip file called ``Archive.zip``. You can also create a new directory with these two files and then ``cd`` into the new directory and compress: ``zip -r Archive.zip .`` Please do not zip the new directory directly.

Make sure you have already created a project on Azkaban ( See  :ref:`createProjects` ).
You can then upload Archive.zip to your project through Web UI ( See :ref:`uploadProjects` ).

Now you can click ``Execute Flow`` to test your first Flow 2.0 Azkaban project!

*****
Job Dependencies
*****
Jobs can have dependencies on each other.
You can use ``dependsOn`` section to list all the parent jobs. In the below example, after jobA and jobB run successfully, jobC will start to run. 
::

  nodes:
    - name: jobC
      type: noop
      # jobC depends on jobA and jobB
      dependsOn:
        - jobA
        - jobB

    - name: jobA
      type: command
      config:
        command: echo "This is an echoed text."

    - name: jobB
      type: command
      config:
        command: pwd

You can zip the new ``basic.flow`` and ``flow20.project`` again and then upload it to Azkaban. Try to execute the flow and see the difference.

*****
Job Config
*****
Azkaban supports many job types. You just need to specify it in ``type``, and other job-related info goes to ``config`` section in the format of ``key: value`` pairs. Here is an example of a Pig job:
::
  nodes:
    - name: pigJob
      type: pig
      config:
        pig.script: sql/pig/script.pig

You need to write your own pig script and put it in your project zip and then specify the path for the pig.script in the config section.

*****
Flow Config
*****
Not only can you configure individual jobs, but you can also config the flow parameters for the entire flow.
Simply add a ``config`` section at the beginning of the ``basic.flow`` file. For example:
::
  ---
  config:
    user.to.proxy: foo
    failure.emails: noreply@foo.com

  nodes:
    - name: jobA
      type: command
      config:
        command: echo "This is an echoed text."

When you execute the flow, the ``user.to.proxy`` and ``failure.emails`` flow parameters will apply to all jobs inside the flow.

*****
Embedded Flows
*****
Flows can have subflows inside the flow just like job nodes. To create embedded flows, specify the type of the node as ``flow``. For example:
::
  nodes:
    - name: embedded_flow
      type: flow
      config:
        prop: value
      nodes:
        - name: jobB 
          type: noop
          dependsOn:
            - jobA

        - name: jobA
          type: command
          config:
            command: pwd

*****
Download Examples
*****
You can download the simple Flow 2.0 project zip examples to start playing with Azkaban:

* `basicFlow20Project.zip <https://github.com/azkaban/azkaban/blob/master/az-examples/flow20-projects/basicFlow20Project.zip>`_

* `embeddedFlow20Project.zip <https://github.com/azkaban/azkaban/blob/master/az-examples/flow20-projects/embeddedFlow20Project.zip>`_

Commit message:

Wiki-doc: add job level common parameters descriptino

docs/createFlows.rst, after:

.. _CreatingFlows:

Creating Flows
=============

This section covers how to create your Azkaban flows using Azkaban Flow 2.0.
Flow 1.0 will be deprecated in the future.


*****
Flow 2.0 Basics
*****

########
Using Azkaban Flow 2.0 can be simple and straightforward. Just start with below several steps:

Step 1:
########
Create a simple file called ``flow20.project``. Add ``azkaban-flow-version`` to indicate this is a Flow 2.0 Azkaban project:
::
  azkaban-flow-version: 2.0
Step 2:
########
Create another file called ``basic.flow``. Add a section called ``nodes``, which will contain all the jobs you want to run. You need to specify ``name`` and ``type`` for all the jobs. Most jobs will require the ``config`` section as well. We will talk more about it later. Below is a simple example of a command job.
::
  nodes:
    - name: jobA
      type: command
      config:
        command: echo "This is an echoed text."


Step 3:
########
Select the two files you've already created and right click to compress them into a zip file called ``Archive.zip``. You can also create a new directory with these two files and then ``cd`` into the new directory and compress: ``zip -r Archive.zip .`` Please do not zip the new directory directly.

Make sure you have already created a project on Azkaban ( See  :ref:`createProjects` ).
You can then upload Archive.zip to your project through Web UI ( See :ref:`uploadProjects` ).

Now you can click ``Execute Flow`` to test your first Flow 2.0 Azkaban project!

*****
Job Dependencies
*****
Jobs can have dependencies on each other.
You can use ``dependsOn`` section to list all the parent jobs. In the below example, after jobA and jobB run successfully, jobC will start to run.
::

  nodes:
    - name: jobC
      type: noop
      # jobC depends on jobA and jobB
      dependsOn:
        - jobA
        - jobB

    - name: jobA
      type: command
      config:
        command: echo "This is an echoed text."

    - name: jobB
      type: command
      config:
        command: pwd

You can zip the new ``basic.flow`` and ``flow20.project`` again and then upload it to Azkaban. Try to execute the flow and see the difference.

*****
Job Config
*****
Azkaban supports many job types. You just need to specify it in ``type``, and other job-related info goes to ``config`` section in the format of ``key: value`` pairs. Here is an example of a Pig job:
::
  nodes:
    - name: pigJob
      type: pig
      config:
        pig.script: sql/pig/script.pig

You need to write your own pig script and put it in your project zip and then specify the path for the pig.script in the config section.

Common Parameters
########
Besides the type and the dependencies parameters, there are several parameters that Azkaban reserves for all jobs. All of the parameters below are optional.

+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parameter      | Description                                                                                                                      |
+================+==================================================================================================================================+
| retries        | The number of retries that will be automatically attempted for failed jobs                                                       |
| retry.backoff  | The millisec time between each retry attempt                                                                                     |
| working.dir    | Override the working directory for the execution. This is by default the directory that contains the job file that is being run. |
| env.property   | Set the environment variable with named property                                                                                 |
| failure.emails | Comma delimited list of emails to notify during a failure. *                                                                     |
| success.emails | Comma delimited list of emails to notify during a success. *                                                                     |
| notify.emails  | Comma delimited list of emails to notify during either a success or failure. *                                                   |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Email properties
#########
Note that for email properties, this property is retrieved from the last job in the flow and applied flow level. All other email properties of jobs in the flow are ignored.

*****
Flow Config
*****
Not only can you configure individual jobs, but you can also config the flow parameters for the entire flow.
Simply add a ``config`` section at the beginning of the ``basic.flow`` file. For example:
::
  ---
  config:
    user.to.proxy: foo
    failure.emails: noreply@foo.com

  nodes:
    - name: jobA
      type: command
      config:
        command: echo "This is an echoed text."

When you execute the flow, the ``user.to.proxy`` and ``failure.emails`` flow parameters will apply to all jobs inside the flow.

*****
Embedded Flows
*****
Flows can have subflows inside the flow just like job nodes. To create embedded flows, specify the type of the node as ``flow``. For example:
::
  nodes:
    - name: embedded_flow
      type: flow
      config:
        prop: value
      nodes:
        - name: jobB 
          type: noop
          dependsOn:
            - jobA

        - name: jobA
          type: command
          config:
            command: pwd

*****
Download Examples
*****
You can download the simple Flow 2.0 project zip examples to start playing with Azkaban:

* `basicFlow20Project.zip <https://github.com/azkaban/azkaban/blob/master/az-examples/flow20-projects/basicFlow20Project.zip>`_

* `embeddedFlow20Project.zip <https://github.com/azkaban/azkaban/blob/master/az-examples/flow20-projects/embeddedFlow20Project.zip>`_
